.TH ASON\ INSPECT 3 "JANUARY 2014" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
ason_check_represented_in, ason_check_equal, ason_type, ason_long, ason_double,
ason_string \- Inspect various properties of ASON values.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ason/ason.h>
.sp
.B int ason_check_represented_in(ason_t *a, ason_t *b);
.br
.B int ason_check_equal(ason_t *a, ason_t *b);
.sp
.B ason_type_t ason_type(ason_t *a);
.br
.B long long ason_long(ason_t *a);
.br
.B double ason_double(ason_t *a);
.br
.B char *ason_string(ason_t *a);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ason_check_represented_in
is used to check whether the ASON value in
.I a
is represented in
.IR b .

.B ason_check_equal
is used to check whether two ASON values are equal.

.B ason_type
returns the type of the ASON value in
.IR a .
See
.BR ason_values (3).

.BR ason_long ,
and
.B ason_double
return the numerical values of numerical ASON values as a C long long or C
double respectively.

.BR ason_string
returns the C string value of an ASON string value. The returned value is a new
string which must be freed with
.B free (3).

.SH RETURN VALUE
.B ason_check_represented_in
and
.B ason_check_equal
return nonzero if the condition they check for is true.

.B ason_type
returns the appropriate ason_type_t constant. See
.B ason_values (3).

.B ason_long
and
.B ason_double
return the appropriate long long or double value.

.B ason_string
returns a new string which must be freed by the caller.

Note that
.BR ason_long ,
.BR ason_double ,
and
.B ason_string
will abort if they are used on a value which cannot be converted to the
appropriate type. You MUST check the type of the argument with
.B ason_type
before calling.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ason (3)
.BR ason_values (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Casey Dahlin <casey.dahlin@gmail.com>
