.TH ASON\ ITERATORS 3 "JANUARY 2014" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
ason_destroy \- Free resources associated with an ason_t value.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ason/value.h>
.br
.B #include <ason/iter.h>
.sp
.B ason_iter_t *ason_iterate(ason_t *value);
.sp
.B int ason_iter_enter(ason_iter_t *iter);
.br
.B int ason_iter_exit(ason_iter_t *iter);
.sp
.B int ason_iter_next(ason_iter_t *iter);
.br
.B int ason_iter_prev(ason_iter_t *iter);
.sp
.B long ason_iter_long(ason_iter_t *iter);
.br
.B double ason_iter_double(ason_iter_t *iter);
.br
.B char *ason_iter_string(ason_iter_t *iter);
.br
.B ason_t *ason_iter_value(ason_iter_t *iter);
.sp
.B char *ason_iter_key(ason_iter_t *iter);
.sp
.B void ason_iter_destroy(ason_iter_t *iter);
.sp
.B ason_type_t ason_iter_type(ason_iter_t *iter);
.sp
.B typedef enum {
.br
.B 	ASON_TYPE_NUMERIC,
.br
.B 	ASON_TYPE_EMPTY,
.br
.B 	ASON_TYPE_NULL,
.br
.B 	ASON_TYPE_UNIVERSE,
.br
.B 	ASON_TYPE_WILD,
.br
.B 	ASON_TYPE_UNION,
.br
.B 	ASON_TYPE_INTERSECT,
.br
.B 	ASON_TYPE_OBJECT,
.br
.B 	ASON_TYPE_UOBJECT,
.br
.B 	ASON_TYPE_LIST,
.br
.B 	ASON_TYPE_JOIN,
.br
.B 	ASON_TYPE_COMP,
.br
.B 	ASON_TYPE_STRING,
.br
.B 	ASON_TYPE_TRUE,
.br
.B 	ASON_TYPE_FALSE,
.br
.B 	ASON_TYPE_REPR,
.br
.B 	ASON_TYPE_EQUAL,
.br
.B } ason_type_t;
.SH DESCRIPTION
ASON iterators are used to traverse ASON values and query individual values
within. ASON iterators are created with
.BR ason_iterate ,
and they should be released after use with
.BR ason_iter_destroy .

Once created, the iterator points to the object which was passed to
.BR ason_iterate .
You can get a copy of this value with
.BR ason_iter_value .

.B ason_iter_enter
is used to begin iterating sub-values of a value. It will let you iterate
through operands of an irreducible operator, values in a list, and key-value
pairs in an object or universal object. Values joined by union operators are
merged as one value, so if you entered the value 6 | 7 | 8 you would be able to
iterate through 6, 7, and 8 sequentially.

.B ason_iter_exit reverses the effect of ason_enter. The iterator points back
to the containing value.

.B ason_iter_next
and
.B ason_iter_prev
shift to the next and previous values being iterated respectively. If we are at
the beginning or end of the set they have no effect.

.B ason_iter_type
returns a constant indicating the type of value the iterator currently points
to.

.BR ason_iter_long ,
.BR ason_iter_double ,
and
.B ason_iter_string
return the C value of ASON numerical values or ASON string values. It is an
error to use these functions when the iterator is not pointing to a value of
the type they convert. Always use
.B ason_iter_type
to verify the type first.
.B ason_iter_string
returns a pointer to a region that must be freed with
.BR free (3).

.BR ason_iter_value
Returns an
.I ason_t *
copy of the value the iterator is currently pointing to.

.B ason_iter_key
returns the key for the value the iterator currently points to, if we are
iterating through an object.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.B ason_iterate
returns a new iterator which should be released with
.BR ason_iter_destroy .

.BR ason_iter_enter ,
.BR ason_iter_exit ,
.BR ason_iter_next ,
and
.B ason_iter_prev
will return nonzero when and only when it was possible to move the iterator in
the way prescribed.

.B ason_iter_type
returns a constant indicating the type of the value the iterator points to.

.BR ason_iter_long ,
and
.B ason_iter_double
return the numerical value that the iterator points to.

.BR ason_iter_string ,
and
.B ason_iter_key
return string pointers that should be released with
.BR free (3)
and which contain the string value the iterator points to, or the key for the
value the iterator points to.

.B ason_iter_value
returns a value of type
.I ason_t *
which should be released with
.BR ason_destroy (3)
.SH ERRORS
libason will abort if
.BR ason_iter_long ,
.BR ason_iter_double ,
or
.B ason_iter_string
are used when the iterator does not point to the appropriate type of value.

.B ason_iter_key
will cause an abort if used while not iterating through an object.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ason_values (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Casey Dahlin <cdahlin@redhat.com>
