.TH ASON_READ 3 "JANUARY 2014" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
ason_read, ason_readn \- Parse ASON values into ason_t objects.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ason/ason.h>
.br
.B #include <ason/read.h>
.sp
.B ason_t *ason_read(const char *text, ...);
.br
.B ason_t *ason_readn(const char *text, size_t length, ...);
.sp
.B #include <ason/namespace.h>
.sp
.B ason_t *ason_ns_read(ason_ns_t *ns, const char *text, ...);
.br
.B ason_t *ason_ns_readn(ason_ns_t *ns, const char *text, size_t length, ...);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ason_read
parses an ASON value and creates an
.I ason_t
representation of that value.
.B ason_readn
is the same, but reads only
.I length
characters of the string.

.B ason_ns_read
and
.B ason_ns_readn
are the same, but take an additional argument,
.IR ns ,
which is a namespace to evaluate variables from, and store variables to. See
.BR ason_namespace (3).
.SH FORMAT ARGUMENTS
Each of these functions allows for additional arguments which will be converted
to ASON values and put in the appropriate place within the parsed value. The
following tokens can be placed in the string to indicate where additional
arguments should be consumed:

.BR ?i
- An integer argument. Converted to a numeric ASON value.
.br
.BR ?u
- An unsigned integer argument. Converted to a numeric ASON value.
.br
.BR ?I
- A 64-bit integer argument. Converted to a numeric ASON value.
.br
.BR ?U
- A 64-bit unsigned integer argument. Converted to a numeric ASON value.
.br
.BR ?s
- A string argument. Converted to an ASON string value. Can be used as a key
value in objects.
.BR ?
- An ason_t value. Used as-is.

.SH BUGS
libason will try to negotiate between the current locale and the JSON-mandated
UTF-8 encoding, but for best results, users should deal directly in UTF-8.
.SH RETURN VALUE
All functions should always return a valid pointer to
.IR ason_t .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ason_values (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Casey Dahlin <casey.dahlin@gmail.com>


